So this video is going to be quick.
I'm just going to show a potential way of refactoring this show because I want to preserve this original
file for other students.
I'm going to make a new file and I'll just call this one the two piu and paste all the code in there.
But I'm going to make a couple of changes so I don't like having all these.
And all over the place.
So what I'm going to do instead is refactor things to look like this.
So if Player 1 equals equals rock then inside we're going to nest the other player two possibilities
rather than linking them together with an.
And I'm going to have a third one equals rock.
And then inside if there if Player 2 equals equals.
It all started off with scissors.
And if that's the case then we will print player one witness.
OK so we've covered this line and now we can move on to the next one so I'm going to just delete this.
So hopefully you can see how you know we can rewrite an AND statement with two nested conditionals.
And the reason to do this is so we don't have to rewrite.
If player one equals rock multiple times so we can actually just copy this right here and do an.
Player two equals paper.
If that's the case then we're going to print player two wins.
OK.
So that covers the scenarios or player one plays rock.
Aside from a tie so we'll add that later.
So next up is if Player 1 plays paper.
So that's these two.
So we'll start with if Player 2 equals rock then Player 1 wins.
Basically I'm just copying things over and rewriting them.
So then after that we have.
If Player 2 is scissors.
If that's the case then we're going to print two wins because scissors beats paper and I should make
this an elf and then we'll have another one this time as Player 1 equals scissors.
And if that's the case first thing will check if and that should actually make all of these lifts.
Well not all of them but the the ones that follow and if because only one of these is going to be true
any time it won't break our code.
But it's just better to do it this way.
So if player equals scissors.
If Player 1 or player 2 is rock and that means player 1 wins because rock beats scissors.
OK then after that we have if player to play paper.
So we have an el If Player 2 calls paper.
If that's the case player one wins it's perfect.
And you know looking at this this is a really minor thing but we have a pattern of player 1 wins then
player to player 1 when said Player 2.
And here we switch them.
I am this might sound crazy but I kind of want to switch them.
So we keep that pattern going.
So it's organized in a logical way.
So all I did was just change the bottom to the if an elf around.
So now paper and then rock meaning player 1 wins then Player 2 wins.
But it doesn't make a difference as far as our code.
OK.
So then we could add in our Elif if Player 1 equals player 2.
Then we'll print it to tie and then we have our final else that Prince.
Something went wrong.
Now there's a change the make which is to bring this to the top.
So this is sort of the most common scenario because there's you know three different ways of achieving
this draw.
So what I'm going to do is actually move it up to the very beginning and say if player one equals player
2.
Just like this print it's a tie.
And I'm going to make this and elif.
And so if it's a tie then we're not even going to bother checking any of this because these are Eliphaz.
Remember these are only even run at the conditionals are checked only if the first is false.
So if it's true we're kind of short circuiting it and we're done rather than continuing to check all
of these.
And the reason it matters is because a draw.
There's three ways of achieving that.
And so we might as well just get it out of the way up here.
But it's just a stylistic thing as well.
It is not going to change how things work in our actual game.
OK and then we have or else which is you know if somebody typed something other than rock paper scissors
we're not really going to add in real error handling.
Once we learn about looping we'll actually be able to tell a user you know enter a new move if you entered
an invalid one and we can keep asking them to enter something valid until they actually do.
But for now this game just goes once.
OK let's see if we have any syntax errors first.
So that's going to be Python 3 V-2.
And yes looks like we're missing a colon on line 11 right there.
Where else right here.
And I think that it is check now.
OK player 1 make you move player 1 plays rock player to play scissors.
So player one wins let's do paper versus paper.
It's a tie.
And both do scissors versus paper let's do versus Rock who.
And good thing we ran that one because I have another typo.
If you look at this saying that it doesn't know what player is and maybe you caught this before me.
But I'm actually referencing a variable player rather than Player 1.
And we weren't ever encountering a problem until I actually entered scissors for player 1 because otherwise
only this code was running OK.
The last thing.
Well let's just make sure that works now.
So if I type scissors versus rock everything works.
And let's see if we enter jibberish.
Something went wrong.
Perfect.
And what about if only one player enters jibberish.
The first one says the first one says rock and the second one enters jibberish.
Nothing happens.
So this is worth noting the way that our code is set up right now is that.
So if Player 1 enters rock and Player 2 enters gibberish Well this is going to be triggered and then
this runs and if not if nothing is printed out because player to enter jibberish then nothing is printed
out period because the way this is set up that we have this as an else.
So it's only going to run if none of this is true.
So just worth noting we're will learn much better ways of handling user input and an error checking
and that sort of thing.
And I'm not going to refactor everything right now.
So a solution that we could add up top would be an additional check or we could say if Player 2 I want
to do the whole thing is equal to rock or player 2 is equal to paper or player 2 is equal to scissors.
Then we'll do all of this else as a separate.
Else then we would say OK.
Player 2 You didn't enter something valid.
But for now we'll just leave it at this.
Just know that there's a little bit of a shortcoming with that code.
If two people both players enter jibberish.
Last thing if we want to add that little shields we can just add a print statement here that says something
like No cheating.
And I guess we haven't seen this but we can actually multiply things multiply strings so this will just
run this 20 times but on its own that's not going to be that impressive because it will be on the same
line.
But if we add our backslash N..
Now let's take a look.
Remember that's the escape sequence that adds a new line to carriage return.
So rock versus paper so it's still not quite long enough.
So we could just add in two returns.
Now let's try it let's go.
Paper versus scissors.
Player 2 wins and Player 2 wasn't able to see player 1 entered.
OK.
So next up is the advanced version with a random computer AI.